





I loved alcohol, it was my friend. It made me happy, it made things funny, it was relaxing. It was what I did, it was what I was good at. It was part of my personality.

I also knew that it was making me slow, fat, and mean. Numb. I was hemorrhaging money, I had no real plans or hopes for the future, I hated looking in the mirror. I had stomach issues, my skin was terrible, my periods were all messed up. Every day felt the same, and it felt in general like I was staring at the ground. I was hiding how much I drank, spreading the truth out so no one knew all of it. No one knew me.

So I believed both that I loved drinking, and that it was ruining my life.




Challenge your understandings and certainties. – Warren Buffett once said, “What the human being is best at doing is interpreting all new information so that their prior conclusions remain intact.”  This is a tragedy, this kind of thinking.  Don’t do it to yourself.  Don’t just look for data that confirms what you already know.  Be willing to be wrong in 2019.  Be willing to learn in 2019.  Be mindful, humble and teachable every step of the way.  There’s always room for a new idea, a new perspective . . . a new beginning.  Life changes every second, and so can you.  Find ways to provide a healthy challenge to your current understandings of life, and you will discover and experience far more of life’s magic in the year ahead.

35. Make a few radical changes to your life each year
Reinvent yourself every year. Novelty is an antidote to monotony. Jump into new pursuits and relationships.

Try things youøve never done before.

Take risks.

Have more fun.

Pursue big things youøve been procrastinating for years.

In 2015, my wife and I went from having no kids to having three foster kids (ages 5, 7, and 9). Iøve started blogging. I quit my job and started writing full-time. I completely changed my diet. Iøve changed my entire daily routine.

This year has been just as transformative as the last. Itøs taught me that you can change your whole life in one year. I plan on changing my whole life for the better every year.

Change freaks people out. It immediately pulls you from your comfort zone. Which is exactly what you need. Youøll often feel like a fraud. But impostor syndrome is exactly what you should be seeking. Do your best to always be the dumbest person in the room and youøll improve rapidly.

36. Define what wealth and happiness mean to you
øBe everything to everybody and youøll be nothing for yourself.øøøøJohn Rushton
No two human beings are the same. So why should we have one standard of success? Seeking societyøs standard of success is an endless rat-race. There will always be someone better than you. Youøll never have the time to do everything.

Instead, you recognize that every decision has opportunity cost. When you choose one thing, you simultaneously donøt choose several others. And thatøs okay. Actually, itøs beautiful because we get to choose our ultimate ideal.

We must define success, wealth, and happiness in our own terms because if we donøt, society will for usøøøand we will always fall short. Weøll always be left wanting. Weøll always be stuck comparing ourselves and competing with other people. Our lives will be an endless race for the next best thing. Weøll never experience contentment.





16. Say øNoø to people, obligations, requests, and opportunities youøre not interested in from now on
øNo more yes. Itøs either HELL YEAH! or no.øøøøDerek Sivers
Your 20 seconds of daily courage will most consistently involve saying ønoø to stuff that doesnøt really matter. But how could you possibly say ønoø to certain opportunities if you donøt know what you want? You canøt. Like most people, youøll be seduced by the best thing that comes around. Or, youøll crumble under other peopleøs agendas.

But if you know what you want, youøll have the courage and foresight to pass up even brilliant opportunitiesøøøbecause ultimately they are distractors from your vision. As Jim Collins said in Good to Great, øA øonce-in-a-lifetime opportunityø is irrelevant if it is the wrong opportunity.ø




14. Get 7+ hours of sleep each night
Letøs face it: sleep is just as important as eating and drinking water. Despite this, millions of people do not sleep enough and experience insane problems as a result.

The National Sleep Foundation (NSF) conducted surveys revealing that at least 40 million Americans suffer from more than 70 different sleep disorders; furthermore, 60 percent of adults, and 69 percent of children, experience one or more sleep problems a few nights or more during a week.

In addition, more than 40 percent of adults experience daytime sleepiness severe enough to interfere with their daily activities at least a few days each monthøøøwith 20 percent reporting problem sleepiness a few days a week or more.

On the flip side, getting a healthy amount of sleep is linked to:

Increased memory
Longer life
Decreased inflammation
Increased creativity
Increased attention and focus
Decreased fat and increased muscle mass with exercise
Lower stress
Decreased dependence on stimulants like caffeine
Decreased risk of getting into accidents
Decreased risk of depression
And tons moreø Google it.




11. Do something everyday that terrifies you
øA personøs success in life can usually be measured by the number ofuncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have.øøøøTim Ferriss
But you donøt have to constantly be battling your fears. Actually, Darren Hardy has said that you can be a coward 99.9305556% of the time (to be exact). You only need to be courageous for 20 seconds at a time.

Twenty seconds of fear is all you need. If you courageously confront fear for 20 seconds every single day, before you know it, youøll be in a different socio-economic and social situation.

Make that call.

Ask that question.

Pitch that idea.

Post that video.

Whatever it is you feel you want to doødo it. The anticipation of the event is far more painful than the event itself. So just do it and end the inner-conflict.

In most cases, your fears are unfounded. As Seth Godin has explained, our comfort zone and our safety zone are not the same thing. It is completely safe to make an uncomfortable phone call. You are not going to die. Donøt equate the two. Recognize that most things outside your comfort zone are completely safe.

12. Do something kind for someone else daily
øHave I done any good in the world today? Have I helped anyone in need?Have I cheered up the sad and made someone feel glad? If not, I have failed indeed. Has anyoneøs burden been lighter today, because I was willing to share? Have the sick and the weary been helped on their way? When they needed my help was I there?øøøøWill L. Thompson (music and text)
If weøre too busy to help other people, weøve missed the mark. Taking the time to spontaneouslyøøøas well as plannedøøøhelping other people is one of the greatest joys in life. Helping others opens you up to new sides of yourself. It helps you connect deeper with those you help and humanity in general. It clarifies what really matters in life.

As Thomas Monson has said, øNever let a problem to be solved become more important than a person to be loved.ø That would truly be a failure.

13. Go to bed early and rise early





6. Make a bucket list and actively knock items off
Most people have it backwardsøøøthey design their ambitions around their life, rather than designing their life around their ambitions (see this free eBook on how to quickly create your ideal life).

What are the things you absolutely must do before you die?

Start there.

Then design your life around those things. Or as Stephen Covey explained in The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, øBegin with the end clearly in mind.ø

A simple mental exercise that may be helpful is imagining you only have 30 days to live. What would you do in those 30 days?

Now imagine you have 5 years to live. What would you do during those 5 years?

Get to work. The death-bed mentality is the only way to live. Stop pretending youøll live forever. As Professor Harold Hill has saidøøøøYou pile up enough tomorrows, and youøll find you are left with nothing but a lot of empty yesterdays.ø




5. Marry the person you love
øFor all the productivity and success advice Iøve read, shaped and marketed for dozens of authors in the last decade, Iøve never really seen someone come out and say: Find yourself a spouse who complements and supports you and makes you better.øøøøRyan Holiday
Research done by economists have foundøøøeven after controlling for age, education, and other demographicsøøøthat married people make 10 to 50 percent more than single people.

Why would this be?

Being married gives you a higher purpose for being productive. You are no longer a lone ranger, but have another person who relies on you.

Marriage also smacks you in the face with whatøs really important in life. Sure, hanging out and partying are fun. But too many people get stuck in this phase and miss the meaning that comes from building a life with someone.

You will never find a better personal development seminar or book than marriage. It will highlight all of your flaws and weaknesses, challenging you to become a better person than you ever thought possible.

Said Thomas Monson, øChoose your love; love your choice.ø After youøve chosen the person you love, love them. You donøt marry to make yourself happy, you marry to make someone else happy. Said Frankl in Manøs Search for Meaning, øFor success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue, and it only does so as the unintended side effect of oneøs personal dedication to a cause greater than oneself or as the by-product of oneøs surrender to a person other than oneself.ø





3. Read 1 book per week
Ordinary people seek entertainment. Extraordinary people seek education and learning. It is common for the worldøs most successful people to read at least one book per week. They are constantly learning.

I can easily get through one audiobook per week by just listening during my commute to school and while walking on campus. Taking even 15ø30 minutes every morning to read uplifting and instructive information changes you. It puts you in the zone to perform at your highest.

Over a long enough period of time, you will have read hundreds of books. Youøll be knowledgeable on several topics. Youøll think and see the world differently. Youøll be able to make more connections between different topics.






About two years ago I started a list called øThings I wish I had known earlierø in my journal.

I initially came up with 25 lessons about life, career, love, and relationships. Things Iøve learned from mentors, books, friends, readers, etc.

I created the list for myself because I realized that I forgot important lessons at the same rate I learned new lessons.

And when I shared the list on my blog for the first time, a lot of people thought it was useful. Two years later, I still read the list a few times a year. Plus, I added new lessons Iøve learned recently.

Hereøs the latest edition. I hope you find it useful.

Struggle Is Good
Never say øI canøt take it anymore.ø Say øBring it on!ø
Donøt Complain
Complaining is the biggest waste of time there is. Either do something about it, and if you canøt, shut up about it.
Always Strive For Something
When you wake up in the morning, think about what youøre trying to achieve. Humans need a vision to wake up every morning. After you picture your vision, go after it. Every day.
Spend Time With People You Love
Thatøs your family and best friends. If you donøt have a family, create one. Most people in life are only visitors. Family is for life.
Donøt Start A Relationship If Youøre Not In Love
Iøve done this more than once. You kind of like someone and think: øWe might as well give it a shot.ø Not a good idea. Youøre either in love, or you are not. Donøt fool yourself. Itøs not fair to you and the other person.
Exercise Daily
A healthy body is where you have to start everything in life. If you canøt build a healthy and strong body, what can you build in life?
Keep A Journal
No, keeping a journal is not for children. It helps you to become a better thinker and writer. øI donøt want to be a writerø you might think. Well, how many emails and texts do you send a day? Everybody is a writer.
Be Grateful
Say øthank youø to everyone and everything. øThank you for this beautiful day.ø øThank you for your email.ø øThank you for being there for me.ø
Donøt Care About What People Think
We all die in the end, do you really think it matters what people think of you?
Take More Risks
Donøt be such a wimp. Seriously.
Pick An Industry, Not A Job
If you want to become good at something, you need to spend years and years doing that. You canøt do that if you hop from industry to industry. Pick an industry you love and start at the bottom. You will find the perfect role for you eventually.
Lead The Way
When you find yourself in a situation where everyone looks at each other, itøs time for you to lead. Youøre a leader when you decide to become one. Thereøs no initiation or a title. Just a decision.
Things Are Not What They Seem
If something sounds too good to be true, it is. A little skepticism never hurts.
Money Is Not The Most Important Thing
You have to train yourself not to care about money and focus on providing value instead. Also, donøt become too dependent on the stuff you ownøøøotherwise, the stuff will own you.
Be Nice
I donøt mean you should be a pushover. You can be someone that doesnøt take shit and be nice about it. Just donøt insult people, think youøre better than them, or act like an idiot.
Strain Yourself
Take on challenging things in your life. No strain no gain.
Get Comfortable With Being Uncomfortable
Life, work, relationships, challenges. Itøs all uncomfortable. So get comfortable with that.
Learn Every Day
Youøve got to train your brain to stay alert. You donøt have to read a book a day to learn every day. Learn from your mistakes. Learn from the people around youøøøbe open to what they can teach you.
Rest Before You Are Tired
Even if you love your job, and every day seems like a holiday, you need to take time to rest. Youøre a human and not an android, never forget that.
Donøt Judge
Just because people make different choices than you, they are not stupid. Also, you donøt know everything about people, so donøt judge themøøøhelp them.
Value Yourself
øWho am I to say something?ø Well, youøre a human being who wakes up every morning and contributes something to this world. You have the right to say and do anything you want. Recognize that.
Have Patience
Rome wasnøt built in a day, right? But thatøs too obvious. Rome also wasnøt built in a year, or even two years, or even five years. Some things take decades to make happen. Howøs that for your perspective?
Think About Others
Just be mindful, thatøs all. We all have families, bills to pay, and our own issues. Donøt always make everything about yourself.
Give Without Expecting Something In Return
Donøt keep score. You will become a bitter person if you do that. Give solely for the joy of giving. If you get something in return, great, if you donøt, great.
Thereøs No End Game
We, as a species, just are. Donøt try to figure it all out. Enjoy your journey.
Enjoy Small Things
I like clichÈs because they are true. Especially this one. You know why? Everyone says they know it, but no one lives up to it. They just chase big things.
Donøt Take Yourself Seriously
Yeah, yeah, youøre an individual, and people have to take you seriously, I get it. But at the end of the day, weøre all a bunch of ants trying to chase the same things. Lighten up.
Take On More Responsibilities
Sounds paradoxical (like many things in life), but believe me on this one. The more responsibilities you have, the more purpose you have in life. Just donøt get overwhelmed. Youøre not that important.
Donøt Blame People
Whatøs the point? Do you want to punish them? You donøt do that to people. Also, donøt blame yourselføøøyouøre only human.
Never Look Back Too Long
Reflecting on the past is only good for one thing: Learning.
Itøs Okay To Be Sad
Lifeøs not always great. We all know that. But why do we pretend weøre okay while weøre not? Because weøre too proud. If youøre not doing well, admit it. Now, you can work on getting better.
Avoid Negative Situations And People
You canøt underestimate the impact others have on you. Get away from negativity at all cost.
Invest In Yourself
Skills are worth more than a good job, career, money, and even a reputation.Why? The world always needs people who can do something well. Be that person.
Rely On Yourself 
Because itøs the best feeling in the world to know you can figure things out by yourself. But donøt overdo it. Ask for help when you need it.
Donøt Listen To øNoø
The best things in life only happened after people heard øno.ø Did they quit? No.
Buy A House
A lot of wealthy people say they never buy a property to live in it because itøs not an investment. Theyøre right. But a lot of people still donøt care because they like to own the house they live in. I agree. And if you move on, rent it out. Itøs an investment.
Hold Yourself To A High Standard
When you do something, do it well or not at all. Always strive for outperforming yourself.
Create Something
Not to leave a legacy, you wonøt be here to see it anyway, but to be of use. Make music, write a book, build a table, anything. Youøll feel good about yourself, plus you give something back to people to use or enjoy.
Take Action
Donøt just sit there, do something. Without action, there is no outcome.
You might know a lot. But just like Socrates, who believed he knew nothing, you and I also know nothing at all.

So we have to keep learning.







Habit 1: Developing a stoic mindset
Stoicism is a branch of philosophy that has been popularized by authors like Ryan Holiday, Tim Ferriss, and William Irvine.

Its basic premise is that, through constant self-improvement and development of self-control, we can transcend the chaos of daily life and live in a state of peace and prosperity.

Or, as the guys over at Daily Stoic | Stoic Wisdom For Everyday Life put it:


Stoicism has just a few central teachings. It sets out to remind us of how unpredictable the world can be. How brief our moment of life is. How to be steadfast, and strong, and in control of yourself. And finally, that the source of our dissatisfaction lies in our impulsive dependency on our reflexive senses rather than logic.


I committed to the stoic philosophy in my early 20øs and it has had a profound impact on my life and success.

Itøs helped me embrace minimalism, appreciate the brevity of life, and truly learn to control my emotions and master my mind.


Habit 2: Exercising outdoors for at least 60 minutes a day & eating a clean diet

Habit 3: Sleeping 8+ hours a night





 For me, approaching 40 was a time of stereotypical crisis. Having jumped the hurdles of the academic career track, I knew I was lucky to be a tenured professor of philosophy. Yet stepping back from the busyness of life, the rush of things to do, I found myself wondering, what now? I felt a sense of repetition and futility, of projects completed just to be replaced by more. I would finish this article, teach this class, and then I would do it all again. It was not that everything seemed worthless. Even at my lowest ebb, I didnøt feel there was no point in what I was doing. Yet somehow the succession of activities, each one rational in itself, fell short.

I am not alone. Perhaps you have felt, too, an emptiness in the pursuit of worthy goals. This is one form of midlife crisis, at once familiar and philosophically puzzling. The paradox is that success can seem like failure. Like any paradox, it calls for philosophical treatment. What is the emptiness of the midlife crisis if not the unqualified emptiness in which one sees no value in anything? What was wrong with my life?




Sonya displayed the one trait I long to instill in my son: empathy / compassion. Empathy comes from understanding about other people’s situations before making any judgement. Empathy allows people to listen and connect without making any judgement at all. Even if spite is hurled their way, the compassionate person is able to forgive and show kindness.

The other trait Sonya possesses that I hope all of us embrace is an indomitable spirt. No matter what our challenges, we will find a way to overcome. Whether it’s trying to reach financial independence early or getting through middle school without too many emotional scars, an indomitable spirit is important. “What I see is all I know. I’ll be fine,” she said when she sensed my worry.





Two firemen go into a forest to put out a small fire.

Afterward, they stop to rest. The face of one is all smeared with black, while the other manøs face is completely spotless.

Which of the two will wash his face?

Thatøs a silly questionøøøthe one with the dirty face, you might think.

But you are wrong.

The fireman with the dirty face will look at the other one and assume that he looks like him. And, vice versa, the man with the clean face will see his colleagueøs face smeared in with black and think: øI must be dirty too. Iød better wash it.ø

This parable by Paulo Coelho illustrates how people are distorted mirrors. What others reflect on you, is not what you want.





Where would there be leather enough to cover the entire world? With just the leather of my sandals, it is as if the whole world were covered. Likewise, I am unable to restrain external phenomena, but I shall restrain my own mind. What need is there to restrain anything else?


In this metaphor, imagine that the surface of the Earth were covered in shards of glass or some other sharp surface ø you could try to find a covering for the whole world, so that you could walk in comfort ø but youød never be able to do it. Instead, just cover your own feet, and you can walk around just fine.

This is the idea of shifting your own mindset, so that you can deal with irritating people.





My final advice on reading booksøøøitøs not the number of books you read that counts, itøs the quality of books youøve read and how well you apply what youøve read.



##############################################################
LIFE ADVICE:

The post includes simple life advice on how to accept life as it is, and not to get upset about small things that don't really matter, such as not getting enough sleep, not having the body shape you really want, or spending too much time worrying that your perceived life on social media doesn't meet the expectations of others.

She suggests that life is more about spending time with others, giving rather than receiving, and has one very good reason as to why you should never be late meeting a friend. "Be grateful for each day you don't have pain and even the days where you are unwell with man flu, a sore back or a sprained ankle, accept it is shit but be thankful it isn't life threatening and will go away. "It is a weird thing having money to spend at the end.. when you're dying. It's not a time you go out and buy material things that you usually would, like a new dress. It makes you think how silly it is that we think it is worth spending so much money on new clothes and øthings' in our lives.     "Buy your friend something kind instead of another dress, beauty product or jewelry for that next wedding. 1. No-one cares if you wear the same thing twice 2. It feels good. Take them out for a meal, or better yet, cook them a meal. Shout their coffee. Give/ buy them a plant, a massage or a candle and tell them you love them when you give it to them. "Try just enjoying and being in moments rather than capturing them through the screen of your phone. Life isn't meant to be lived through a screen nor is it about getting the perfect photo.. enjoy the bloody moment, people! Stop trying to capture it for everyone else. "Also, remember if something is making you miserable, you do have the power to change it ø in work or love or whatever it may be. Have the guts to change. You don't know how much time you've got on this earth so don't waste it being miserable. I know that is said all the time but it couldn't be more true.






12. Complex investments subtract from your passion.
Investment properties.
Share trading.
Buying crypto.

These are all investments Iøve made which have eaten up my free time that should have been used for blogging. The temptation to keep making more and more money that Iøll probably never get to spend seems alluring in the moment. Stick to simple investments unless investing is your passion.

Investments such as index funds typically beat the full-time investor and require little work to maintain. This leaves you more time and space in your brain to use on your passions in life.





year end questions:

What am I most proud of?
What do I wish I did differently?
What or who did I learn the most from?
What did I resist the most and why?
What new skills did I acquire?
What limiting belief about myself do I no longer have?
How have I been proved wrong and how was that liberating?
Who or what am I most inspired and energized by?
Who or what am I repelled by the most, and why?
What went better/harder than I expected?
What global issue did I take personally?
How did I surprise myself?
What did I do for others?
What am I most grateful for?
What negative patterns seem to be repeating?
What did I start and not complete?
What was something I failed at and what did I learn?
What was the kindest thing I did for my friends and family?
What no longer worries me, that used to?
Where, or doing what, do I feel the most peace?



114. Better to trip with the feet than with the tongue.ø

If you trip with your feet, you can get back up again and carry on business as usual. We all make mistakes like this sometimes. It might be embarrassing, but only if you care greatly about the opinions of others. 

 If you trip with your tongue, you unleash more than just words. You share thoughts, desires, or perspectives that may hurt others. Once youøve said something hurtful, you canøt undo it. Thereøs no getting back up; thereøs only asking for forgiveness and hoping theyøll pull you back up.

Think before you speak. Whatever you say, write, or tweet will be out there forever. You can burn pages, delete tweets and Facebook comments, but you canøt pull your words from someone elseøs mind. So, while you may one day forget why you said such hurtful things, the world wonøt. Donøt forget an earlier lesson that says itøs best not to speak unless you know for certain itøs something worth saying. If even a sliver of your being thinks what youøre about to say is better left unsaid, keep it to yourself, or at least save it for a more opportune moment where your words will be seen in the right light.  

If your hurtful words are already out there, donøt try to make them go away, or tell people that they misunderstoodøapologize. Say that youøre sorry for what you said, sorry for how you made them feel, and express your desire to be more mindful in the future. They may not accept, but thatøs why itøs so important you avoid tripping with your tongue in the first place.  




113. øTwenty years ago, I was like your son. I had a degree, but no job, money or prospects. I was back at home, slept odd hours, avoided contact with my family, was often rude and wasted a mountain of time. My parents, though supportive, didn't do anything to snap me out of it. I slowly emerged into the light and grew out of it. I found a job and eventually a career, cleared my debts, got married and now have a family.



112. Humility > confidence.
Confidence gets you noticed.

Humility brings people back again and again.





111. Hangovers arenøt acceptable excuses anymore.

It actually makes you look like a child. Get your shit together.

110. I enjoyed this video very much, even as someone who considers herself to be an introvert (or, as the narrator describes us, ømentally ill.ø) And by øenjoyed,ø I mean that I chuckled softly to myself, looked around to see if my chuckling had disturbed any of my coworkers, apologized just in case anyone was bothered, and then ducked underneath my desk for some precious me time.


109. At 40 years old, my time for success is over. I don’t crave it nor do I care to make a name for myself anymore compared to when I was in my 20s and early 30s. Now it’s just about spending time with family. But if I were to try to start something new and fail, because of my situation, I don’t think anybody would really care.

108. One of the benefits of my getting older: Far greater appreciation for three things that are too often taken for granted: Health, love & time


107. With age comes wisdom (sort of), but also a whole host of other benefits: a seat on a crowded bus, not caring so much about what others think, a happier and calmer outlook, more time for hobbies and exercise, fewer colds and allergies, youøre smarter (if not mentally quicker), and most people are better off financially.



106. I was 42 years old and had spent decades of my life in a sedentary career, going from desk jobs to graduate school to Silicon Valley. I spent years of my life hunched over a keyboard: designing software, modifying spreadsheets, and preparing presentations. I spent countless hours sitting in conference rooms in endless meetings, eating donuts, pizza, sandwiches, and slices of someoneøs birthday cake. When you work in a big company, itøs always someoneøs birthday.

Getting back into shape takes about 9 minutes where youøre in your teens. Itøs not even that difficult in your 20s, if you commit to it. You hit your 30s and a little voice inside your head says, øUh ohø whatøs going on here?ø You can no longer get away with unhealthy eating and a sedentary lifestyle. Pounds start sneaking on more quickly.
And your 40s? Wellø itøs not pretty. A perfect storm of factors collide. Youøre spending long hours at work. You may even have a long commute, and so you sit and sit and sit. Youøre becoming increasingly busy with your commitments to friends and family.





105. How Diversifying Your Emotions Makes You A More Resilient Person

Thereøs a concept in psychology called øemotional diversity.ø Emotional diversity is just what it sounds like: experiencing a variety of emotions. And it turns out that people who experience a wide variety of both positive and negative emotions are a lot better off, both mentally and physically, than people who only experience a few emotions regularly, good or bad.

Just like a more diverse stock portfolio is more resilient to large swings in stock values, the more diverse your emotional life is, the more resilient you are to the large swings in experience that life gives you. If youøre comfortable with anger, youøll be able to call it up at the appropriate moments and use it. If youøre comfortable with joy or guilt or grief, youøll be able to use those when you need to as well.

A diverse emotional life isnøt just made up of a few øgoodø and øbadø emotions. You can also have lots of emotional subcategories, like amusement, joy, contentment, gratefulness, pride, love, hope, and anger, sadness, guilt, contempt, anxiety, disgust, embarrassment, and on and on.


Researchers think that people who experience a wider range of these types of specific subcategories of emotions are more resilient in the face of adversity because theyøre better at identifying what triggers those emotions. And thus, if you know exactly whatøs making you feel the way you feel, itøs a whole lot easier to react appropriately to it.




104. You need to be taking on challenges that require you to become so much more than you currently are. You need to put your back against the wall so you have no other choice but to produce.

This is how you evolve.

How do you put yourself into these situations? You initiate. You donøt wait for life to come to you. You donøt wait for the ønextø opportunity.

You improve your current situation or øjobø by providing actual value. You pitch ideas. You ask questions. You try and fail. You take on roles that require greater responsibility.



103. 14. Get 7+ hours of sleep each night

Let's face it: sleep is just as important as eating and drinking water. Despite this, millions of people do not sleep enough and experience insane problems as a result.

The National Sleep Foundation (NSF) conducted surveys revealing that at least 40 million Americans suffer from more than 70 different sleep disorders; furthermore, 60 percent of adults, and 69 percent of children, experience one or more sleep problems a few nights or more during a week.

In addition, more than 40 percent of adults experience daytime sleepiness severe enough to interfere with their daily activities at least a few days each monthø--øwith 20 percent reporting problem sleepiness a few days a week or more.

On the flip side, getting a healthy amount of sleep is linked to:

Increased memory

Longer life

Decreased inflammation

Increased creativity

Increased attention and focus

Decreased fat and increased muscle mass with exercise

Lower stress

Decreased dependence on stimulants like caffeine

Decreased risk of getting into accidents

Decreased risk of depression

And tons more... Google it.



102. 1. You will be disappointed and heartbroken multiple times, but it's how you respond that matters.

Andrew shared that most people go through significant changes in their 20 and 30s. As a result, your personality, values, and ambitions change so rapidly that it's difficult for relationships to keep up.

Instead of dwelling on the past for years when a break up happens, immediately find the lessons and spend time figuring out who you are. After you've clarified what you value and what you really want in a relationship, you'll be more prepared to enter a more mature, healthy adult relationship.

2. No amount of money will make women flock to you--and if they do, run fast!

Men often think that once they become successful, women will find them more attractive. Unfortunately, Dan Bilzerian and Tai Lopez's Instagram isn't real, and if you do discover that there are people suddenly giving you more attention when your income increases, chances are they don't care about you--they're only after what they can get from you and your lifestyle.

3. Sex without emotional connection is unfulfilling and a waste of time (so stop pretending otherwise).

While few men are open enough to discuss such a vulnerable topic, Andrew said that he wasted years of his life seeking one night stands, only to discover that felt empty and unfulfilled in the long run. Over time, he learned that great sex and memorable relationships came from deep emotional connections, high levels of vulnerability - not superficial hookups.

5. Life will separate you from your friends, so appreciate each moment you have together.

Practice non-attachment in all of your relationships. All relationships serve a purpose in your life and recognize that some will be fleeting and others will be life-long. Instead of thinking "why did this friendship end", think about how the friendship impacted your life in that moment and what you learned.

6. Excessive partying is nothing more than a desire to escape your reality, and it creates more problems than it solves.

Andrew attested to the fact that people often party because they have inner voids that they want to fill with external validation. Excessive drinking, drug use and late nights out negatively impacts your mind and body, and wastes valuable energy that you could be using to build a better future. He shared the faster you can get out of the party scene the faster you can build your dream life.

8. Invest in yourself instead of buying materials you don't need to impress people you don't like.

Everyone wants to appear successful in their 20s, but it often comes at a price--continuing to refine your craft. Instead of trying to look like somebody that you aren't, read books, join social likeminded groups, listen to podcasts, and attend seminars to learn the strategies and develop the mindset that can actually help you build real wealth.


10. Stop chasing happiness through external validation and start practicing gratitude for what you have right now.

No amount of validation or materialistic success can make you feel grateful. You need to practice appreciating what you have right now in front of you so that you can enjoy the sweet taste of future success when it arrives. If you're not happy with what you do have then future will be the same.

11. How you react to adversity is more important than the event itself.

No matter what happens to you, your reaction is what determines the outcome. Andrew says, like a slingshot, sometimes we have to go backwards before we move forward. Yet, people are so scared to go backward they never give themselves a chance at propel forward.

15. Make each moment count--you never know when death will knock at your front door.

There are no second chances. Andrew reminded me that he lost three family members in one year, which showed him that death becomes closer and closer to you at all times. So instead of wasting time, make the most out of each moment you have and make a difference in the world.

16. You cannot put a price tag on traveling, and you need it to continue growing.

One of Andrew's biggest regrets is turning down two opportunities to travel the world. Appreciate the fact that those opportunities are rare and incredibly enriching experiences. He can't remember what he did instead.

17. Get out of your head and




101. Stoics - productivity

Hereøs what the ancient Stoics can teach you about productivity:

Protect your time like your money: You can get more money.
Manage emotions to better manage time: Feeling too cranky right now; Iøll explain this later.
Important beats urgent: Getting a lot of unnecessary things done is not productivity; itøs stupidity.
Focus on effort, not outcome: You canøt control whether it ends up as a ørobberyø or an øattempted robberyø, just focus on executing the heist in a way that would make mom proud.

100. Stoics - love

Here are the 4 rituals from Stoicism that will make you loved:

Not me: Stop talking about yourself. Let me talk about me and Iøll enjoy your company more. (Wow, this is more fun already.)
Practice øinsult pacifismø: This is the worst blog post Iøve ever written? Trust me, Iøve written far worse.
Listen to the angel on your shoulder: Grandma is watching, potty-mouth.
Treat everyone as family: Treat people as your brothers and sisters and theyøll likely reciprocate.

99. Generous listening is powered by curiosity, a virtue we can invite and nurture in ourselves to render it instinctive. It involves a kind of vulnerability ø a willingness to be surprised, to let go of assumptions and take in ambiguity. The listener wants to understand the humanity behind the words of the other, and patiently summons oneøs own best self and oneøs own best words and questions. If Iøve learned nothing else, Iøve learned this: a question is a powerful thing, a mighty use of words. Questions elicit answers in their likeness. Answers mirror the questions they rise, or fall, to meet.  But itøs hard to resist a generous question. We all have it in us to formulate questions that invite honesty, dignity, and revelation. There is something redemptive and life-giving about asking a better question.




98. While some women dread turning 30, Ali claims it was one of the best things that ever happened to her. She opened up to ESPN about how now she øjust feel[s] a great sense of freedom. My 20s were really toughøand now I feel like I know what I want from life.ø


97. We all regret some things weøve done in our younger yearsø especially when it comes to how we treated our parents. Sian Pierre Regis recently found himself in this exact situation, and when he became aware of how shitty he treated his mother Rebecca back in the day, he decided to give her one of the coolest gifts ever when she fell on hard times.

The man has said that despite his mother working hard to take care of him and feed him when he was a kid, he often gave her hell for not making more money. He knows he was a bit ungrateful, so thatøs why heøs trying hard to make up for that now.



Death is a strange thing. People live their whole lives as if it does not exist, and yet it’s often one of the great motivations for living. Some of us, in time, become so conscious of it that we live harder, more obstinately, with more fury. Some need its constant presence to even be aware of its antithesis. Others become so preoccupied with it that they go into the waiting room long before it has announced its arrival. We fear it, yet most of us fear more than anything that it may take someone other than ourselves. For the greatest fear of death is always that it will pass us by. And leave us there alone.


And time is a curious thing. Most of us only live for the time that lies right ahead of us. A few days, weeks, years. One of the most painful moments in a person’s life probably comes with the insight that an age has been reached when there is more to look back on than ahead. And when time no longer lies ahead of one, other things have to be lived for. Memories, perhaps. Afternoons in the sun with someone’s hand clutched in one’s own. The fragrance of flowerbeds in fresh bloom. Sundays in a café. Grandchildren, perhaps. One finds a way of living for the sake of someone else’s future. And it wasn’t as if Ove also died when Sonja left him. He just stopped living. Grief is a strange thing.




There comes a time in life when one must face facts. I’m not a size 6 anymore. I’m no longer 25. Two glasses of wine, and I’m guaranteed a hangover. This is just how it is; denying the truth just wastes time. Better to be honest with yourself—which is, if we’re being honest, probably the hardest person to be honest with.



We live in an era where way too often the number of likes we get on a post is the corresponding numeric value we give to ourselves,' she said.

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-4497724/Travel-blogger-comes-clean-tactics-used-Instagram.html#ixzz4iC7tCNtT 
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook


96. The older I get, the more I see that I have a low tolerance for small talk. I don't want to hear about the weather, your complaints about the election or who cut you off on your commute.

The people I'm drawn to want to go deep. Really deep. It took me more than forty years to figure out I don't have to spend time with people who don't stimulate my mind and my spirit. I recommend you don't either. It's a waste of everyone's time and energy.


did you get my card? you have no idea how upset i was with myself

Cannot explain the myriad number of ways she has positively impacted my life

95. Cooking food over a fire. That’s fine, I guess. That’s nice, sitting around a fire. You don’t need to go camping for that, though. Something better than camping is if you can go somewhere with a fire pit. Maybe your friend lives in upstate New York and his property has a fire pit. Or something like that. You can take a trip with your friends there, sit around the fire pit, roast marshmallows, drink a beer or a wine. Tell a ghost story. Then go inside, take a shower, and go to bed. :)



94. I measure my happiness by whether people close to me are happy and love me, & by the difference I make for others. Meanwhile, surround yourself with people who challenge you, teach you, and push you to be your best self. As @MelindaGates does for me

93. Tip #3: Wonder

King’s third tip for great first impressions is more of a mantra to repeat to oneself. When you start to wonder about the other person, it changes your perspective on them completely.

You start to actually care and grow curious about them. Not only shallow traits, such as their occupation or how their day is going, but what motivates them and what makes them act in the way they do. Having a sense of wonder and curiosity about someone is one of the most powerful mindsets because it makes you want to scratch your itch. Scratching the itch of curiosity will become secondary to everything else because you simply want to know about the other person.

92. 11. Stressing over small problems that don't really matter

Stop creating problems and building unnecessary stress. It only drains you of valuable energy that you could be investing in your personal and professional growth.


91. The Three Generation Cycle

“From rice paddy field to rice paddy field in three generations.” – Japanese/Chinese variation

“Shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations.” – American variation

“The father buys, the son builds, the grandchild sells, and his son begs.” – Scottish variation

The First Generation comes from a life of hardship. This generation takes the most risks, works the hardest, and makes the most sacrifices to break the cycle of poverty.

The Second Generation grows up a witness to their parents’ struggle and understands the importance of hard work. Because of this awareness, they make good financial decisions and build upon the foundation their parents worked so hard to create.

The Third Generation, however, has no recollection of hardship. They only know a life of abundance. Without an awareness of the work needed to build build wealth, the third generation squanders their good fortune their parents and grandparents worked so hard to build.

My great grandparents left China by boat in order to make better lives in Hawaii and Taiwan. They took all kinds of risk, whereas by comparison, I’ve done nothing close. I fear that a life free of financial worries will dishonor their generations of hard work, frugality, and sacrifice. With consternation, I wonder when my child grows up, will he take his good fortune for granted?

Being financially independent is fine, but unless you have a deep hunger to do something great, it is unlikely you will ever maximize your potential. Therefore, a key reminder is to always be mindful of others.

Financial independence can blind you to the world’s suffering. Or financial independence can bless you with the time to help other people. Which will you choose?


90. “This is not all that bad.”

I remember when I was in my most unhappy time in corporate life, I would try to hang on and keep soldiering through it by thinking “OK, this is bad, but it’s not always horrible. There are some good moments and experiences.” If I’m really honest, I can see that I did that because I didn’t want to leave behind the high salary I was getting, or the convenience of being very close to my home and my young kids. But the price I paid for that was enormous.




There is no louder wake up call than crossing the threshold into middle age. Turning 40, according to cancer specialist Dr David Agus, is when we begin to question our mortality and take stock of our sedentary, desk-bound lives ø and rightly so, given that in our fourth decade we put on weight more easily, get insufferable hangovers, take longer to get fit and recover from injury more slowly. øThis is when we begin to listen to our bodies and avoid the things we know to be bad for us,ø he says.

In your 40s you have to train more, not just in terms of exercise but in the way you work, eat, relax and sleep, he continues. øThe main problem is stress ø youøve got to be disciplined in order to cope with lifeøs pressures.ø


When we’re in damaging, painful or unhappy relationships, careers or situations, we often cling to the good moments – when it feels healthy, fun, or rewarding. We want desperately for everything to work out without our having to make significant changes, so we hold on too tightly to the times that aren’t awful, praying that the terrible experiences will just pass quickly, or be just an aberration.


3. Trust is built through actions, not words. You can't pay attention to what people say or promise, only what they ultimately do. The way someone acts will tell you everything you need to know.

4. A real relationship is built on vulnerability. It doesn't matter if it's a friendship, a significant other, or even a business connection, the best exchanges are rooted in some level of vulnerability. At the end of the day, we're all exploring life together. We want to have genuine connections.

5. Every relationship has its ups and downs. Conflicts and disagreements are inevitable. What matters is how each conflict is resolved. And the key is to always maintain a level of respect and benefit of the doubt, so that both parties can be heard and mutually understood.


Being conservative has its place, but sometimes you have to go all in. There comes a time in every runner’s racing career when you have to take a risk, start fast, and see what you’re capable of running.


47. So how do you plan for something that is not as straightforward as making deposits into a 401(k) plan or buying health insurance? Eckel talks about the Buddhist notion of the middle path, where you strive to be somewhere between slacker and checklist dater. “If you want to have a relationship, you do what you need to do — you get off the couch and go to the cousin’s friend’s birthday party, but you don’t make it such a big deal if you don’t meet anyone that day, or that week, or that year.”



46. “I was having a midlife crisis about turning 30, and I'm like, ‘I haven't gotten married, I haven't had kids, I need to do something really cool before I turn 30 — what should I do?’” she told INSIDER.


45. 
In the last few years, Iøve witnessed a strange metamorphosis in my social circle: almost all my friends from college, the ones who used to streak naked down the street and subsist solely on pizza rolls and tall cans of Natty Ice, have transformed into responsible adults. They have stable jobs, wear sensible shoes, and drive Subarus. They have married, they have spawned, and their genetic material has created remarkable little humans.

Meanwhile, Iøm typing this column while eating M&Ms for lunch. I may or may not be wearing pants. As for children? Pssht, please. I can barely keep myself alive.

Because we lead such different lives, my friends and I donøt always speak the same language these days. They say things like ømutual funds,ø øcarpool,ø and øwe donøt keep sweets in the house.ø Where we really differ, though, is when they say they donøt have time to exercise. More specifically, that making the time to work out would be greedy.


Read more at http://running.competitor.com/2015/09/out-there/out-there-is-running-selfish_135399#4Vm7sFZeLiRoRIxU.99


44. Empathy starts with thinking about other people's circumstances, understanding their pains and frustrations, and knowing that those emotions are every bit as real as your own. This helps you develop perspective, and opens you up to helping others, which also enhances your sense of gratitude. The best part? What comes around goes around.

43. Date someone you can be goofy with. Someone who can embrace your silliness, someone who joins you in your absurdity and someone who doesnøt ask you to act in a certain way or speak in a certain manner so you can attract them.

Date someone who is impressed by originality, by authenticity and by how real you are.
Date someone you can be too honest with. Someone you can trust with all your secrets and feel comfortable telling them about all the crazy stories that you held inside. Someone who listens and tries to understand, someone who tries to understand without judging and someone who doesnøt expect you to have a spotless life or a spotless past. Date someone who doesnøt make you afraid of sharing your personal secrets or saying you donøt know something. Date someone who is not afraid of teaching you and who is willing to learn from you too.

Date someone who doesnøt care about status. Someone who doesnøt care about titles or labels or big names, someone who is humble enough to realize that these things donøt matter and they shouldnøt. Date someone who is over impressing people with who they date, someone who knows better, someone who gets it and someone who doesnøt think of people as trophies and date someone who knows that having you by their side is enough. Date someone who still thinks youøre hot when youøre tired and pale and barely speaking, date someone who finds your quirks endearing.

And finally date someone who doesnøt make you feel like dating them is a race you need to win, that you have to compete for their attention, that you have to work on your resume so they can accept you, that you have to learn more skills so they can approve of you and date someone who thinks youøre overqualified to even participate in these ridiculous games. Date someone who doesnøt even want to play because the game ended the moment they met you.


42. Wake up early. Enjoy the sunrise. Enjoy the quiet, slow pace of the early morning. Use this time to meditate, pray, reflect, write, exercise, etc.



"The ones we love and lose don't leave us. They don't fade. They don't just disappear into the fabric of our pasts; they are intricately woven in, permanently and beautifully" -marisa donnelly



The only goal I have either for myself or the individuals I teach is that in every interaction the other person should walk away feeling much better for having met you. You should brighten their day and listen to them when no one else will. Build that connection where others wouldn’t and you will have mastered both conversations and quick rapport.

Stop trying to impress people or “win” the conversation. It’s really much simpler than that.

Just listen intently and make people feel good about themselves.





. How can you appreciate this human being, and see that your time with them is limited and precious?



41. Learning from anti-role models

The best place to learn love: from anti-role models. For me, that was my dad.

The way he cursed my mom, inflicted physical and emotional pain on her fucking broke my heart. I swore to myself, when I become a man or a father— to be the exact opposite of my dad. I still love you dad and forgive you, and I appreciate what you taught me about arts, cinema, and music. I know you went through hard shit, and I forgive you and love you. So no worries.

But honestly, you taught me what not to do as a man. To not be a bum, and sit at home, and just smoke, read books, watch movies, and listen to music. To be a man— to work hard, to hustle, to provide for my family.

To not complain, and to not be petty. To not bring up things from the past. To be self-sufficient, and to have confidence and courage.

So friend, think about those people whose character you detested growing up. Who do you not want to be when you grow up? You learn most from anti-role models.



33. When you’re dead, nobody will care how many hours you put in at the office.



32. Expect anything worthwhile to take a long time.

Many believe relationships should just come naturally, like the rush of dopamine that shot into your brain when you guys first met. Actually, to be in a monogamous relationship where you are constantly challenged to look at yourself and compromise your wants or needs is unnatural. It goes against our natural human instincts. In order for us to adapt and embrace this, it takes time. A long time. Be patient.

3.  Work very, very hard.

What of value comes easy? Relationships are no different. I think many underestimate how much work it takes to make a relationship work. Most tap out after the first “very." So what does very very hard work look like? It’s different for everyone. But you will know because of that giant mountain you see in front of you, the one you’ve always avoided climbing. The second “very” means self examination.   

Finish what you start.

I’m referring to arguments. Many start an argument but don’t finish it because it gets too heated. They walk away and never come back to it. Issues don’t get resolved. Instead, people are not heard and there’s anger and resentment. If you walk away from a fight without consent or getting things resolved, you’re leaving the relationship for that period. One day, there will be no one to come back to.

6.  Say yes to almost everything.

Assuming it’s healthy and the intent is good, what’s the worst that could happen? You get out pushed out of your comfort zone? That’s called an opportunity for growth. I think we say no too much in relationships. We don’t like feeling uncomfortable. If you want more yeses in your life, this is where to start.



31. Most of the possessions you own, you donøt use. Most of the clothes in your closet, you donøt wear. Get rid of them. They are sucking energy from your life. Also, they are dormant value waiting to be exchanged for dollars.

30. Do something kind for someone else daily
Have I done any good in the world today? Have I helped anyone in need?Have I cheered up the sad and made someone feel glad? If not, I have failed indeed. Has anyoneøs burden been lighter today, because I was willing to share? Have the sick and the weary been helped on their way? When they needed my help was I there?
If weøre too busy to help other people, weøve missed the mark. Taking the time to spontaneouslyøøøas well as plannedøøøhelping other people is one of the greatest joys in life. Helping others opens you up to new sides of yourself. It helps you connect deeper with those you help and humanity in general. It clarifies what really matters in life.


29. You will never find a better personal development seminar or book than marriage. It will highlight all of your flaws and weaknesses, challenging you to become a better person than you ever thought possible.


28. Never be afraid of making decisions
You might think that making no decision at all can do no harm, but you’re wrong. The worst thing about making decisions is when you don’t pull the trigger.

Waiting, postponing, doubting, researching too much — it’s all not useful. Get your act together, and decide firmly whenever you have to make one. And when you made the wrong decision, apologize, and make another decision.


27. ’m one of those people that feels like I never have enough time in the day to do all the things I want to do. It’s not that I’m terribly busy, I’m just hungry for experiences. I’m very aware of how short life can be, and I can’t stand the thought of not getting to everything on my ever-growing list. There’s always a little more work I’d like to get to, more books I want to read, more games to play, and more things I want to watch on Netflix. Every night, instead of going to bed at a decent hour, I’d burn the midnight oil chipping away at infinity.

But sleep is important, for your mind and health, and I wasn’t getting enough of it—especially with my increasing workouts. I figured the answer was going to bed earlier, but I knew I’d have to trick myself to make any headway. Here’s what I did:


26. You answered your own question and we all struggle with this. Far too many times, I've held too much in cash or bonds because it just seemed like we must be due for a correction, only to miss out some great returns. I'm hoping that I've finally learned my lesson about trying to time the market. Just keep investing, accept that you'll experience dozens of dips, and resist the urge to time the market.

"Far more money has been lost by investors preparing for corrections, or trying to anticipate corrections, than has been lost in corrections themselves."

"I can't recall ever once having seen the name of a market timer on Forbes' annual list of the richest people in the world. If it were truly possible to predict corrections, you'd think somebody would have made billions by doing it."


25. Doing the movements–the degree/the debt, the office job, the pension, the mortgage, waking up everyday hating a job you have to work to support the house you didn’t really want to buy and the degree you didn’t really use for the pension you’ll never use because you’ll get a disease from your misery and die before you can enjoy it isn’t living.


24. Life is not a checklist. It’s not a mountain to scale. It’s not golf game or a beer commercial or whatever other cheesy analogy you want to insert here.

Life is a game of tradeoffs. And you must eventually choose what you’re willing to trade based on what you value. And if you’re not careful with your values, if you are willing to trade things away for the sake of another hit of dopamine, another temporary trip to your own personal psychological 10, then chances are you’re going to fuck things up.



23. The only way I can be sure of creating a great future is to do my best to create a great present, incrementally improving it week by week ø despite the mishaps and little pains that inevitably arise through the course of life.

These days, I write what Iøm grateful for every morning and night. I hug my family every day. I do a little exercise each day. I eat a healthy meal each day. I work on my writing each day. Because small acts multiplied through Monday to Sunday and each week, change my future by an enormous amount.


22. Think Near And Far

Steve Jobs said, øYou canøt connect the dots looking forward you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something: your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever. Because believing that the dots will connect down the road will give you the confidence to follow your heart, even when it leads you off the well worn path.ø

When I look back on my life, itøs crazy how so many things happened without my anticipation. For example, by getting waitlisted at UVA, I never would have met my wife whom I met at William & Mary. I couldnøt imagine my life without her! She got into UVA and thank goodness, decided not to go.

If my net worth hadnøt gotten slaughtered during the financial crisis, I never would have started Financial Samurai and left the corporate world in 2012. Iøm so thankful I was never promoted to Managing Director in 2011 either. Otherwise, I would have absolutely stayed on for at least five more years, if I didnøt get laid off before then.

The only consistent attributes I can think of that have helped all these years are:

Work ethic ø never fail due to a lack of effort.
Always looking at the positives of failure.
Adopting an unwavering belief that everything will turn out OK.
Focusing on helping others first before asking for anything.
Being mindful of the suffering of others.
Showing gratitude.
Always think about how your actions today might affect you in the future. Itøs helpful to think in 5 or 10-year blocks. By thinking near and far, good things will eventually start happening.


21. Another person isnøt going to fulfill us ø at best, theyøll make us feel better about ourselves, and listen to us. The listening part is great, but we can get that from friends or family as well. The feeling better about ourselves is a function we can fulfill on our own as well. Iøm not saying a partner is useless, but I am saying that a partner isnøt needed for fulfillment.

So how can we fulfill ourselves, by ourselves?

Well, what brings fulfillment? In my experience, focusing on pleasures like food, entertainment, online distractions, sex, drugs, alcohol, and thrills ø these only bring temporary pleasure, but in the end youøre left wanting more.

Fulfillment comes from something deeper ø finding meaning in life, finding appreciation for the fleeting beauty of every moment, being in service of others, loving.

But we donøt need a partner for those things. We can find meaning by searching within ourselves and in the world around us. We can start to appreciate the impermanence and joyful moments around us all the time. We can be in service of others in our community. We can love anyone, from those already in our lives (even if they donøt know weøre doing it) to strangers on the street, to all living beings.


Life is incredibly precious. The deaths of loved ones, and the growing up of young ones, are powerful reminders of how short life is. And how important it is to appreciate this gift weøve been given. I really believe life is a miracle, and to take it for granted is kind of a crime. I do my best to realize the preciousness of life every day, and appreciate as many moments as I can. I try not to take my loved ones for granted, because I have no idea how many more moments I have with them.

20. Successful people have a few major things in common. One, they withstand temptation. Two, they delay gratification. And three, they overcome their fears to do what they need to do -- consistently doing, over and over again, the things makes the biggest difference in their lives.

In short, they grind, working hard every day to achieve their long-term goals.

19. None of the best experiences of your life will happen staring at a screen.


18. Actions you take beat life-changing intentions. Not doing anything is the same as intending to do something but never actually doing it.

Does it really matter if you wanted or really intended to do something, but ended up just not doing it?

Just thinking about something wont’t do you any good if you don’t actually do it. Every time you put something off, it’s put into a queue, and nearly everything in that order of things to do may NEVER get done.

You can never get real progress if you don’t take action. All of the self-help articles in the world can’t save you if you never take action. Every time you read a book or article like this, immediately apply something from it (no matter how big or small).

17. It's not what is the worst that could happen, but what is the best that could happen?

16. If you never try and take great opportunities, or allow your dreams to become realities, you will never realise your true potential.

And the world will never benefit from what you could have achieved.

So voice your ideas, don’t be afraid to fail, and certainly don’t be afraid to succeed.



14. 1. Let Go Of The Need For Specific Outcomes

Not everything in life goes exactly how we plan. There are setbacks. Stuff happens. We mess up. Over-obsessing and basing happiness on specific outcomes leads to misery

2. Define Your Own Success And Happines 

Seeking societyøs standard of success is an endless rat-race. There will always be someone better than you. Youøll never have the time to do everything.

Instead, you recognize that every decision has opportunity cost. When you choose one thing, you simultaneously donøt choose several others. And thatøs okay. Actually, itøs beautiful because we get to choose our ultimate ideal. We must define success, wealth, and happiness in our own terms because if we donøt, society will for usøøøand we will always fall short.


7. Donøt Wait Til Tomorrow For What You Can Do Today

øWhen I was around thirteen and my brother ten, Father had promised to take us to the circus. But at lunchtime there was a phone call; some urgent business required his attention downtown. We braced ourselves for disappointment. Then we heard him say [into the phone], øNo, I wonøt be down. Itøll have to wait.ø
øWhen he came back to the table, Mother smiled. øThe circus keeps coming back, you know,ø [she said.]
øøI know,ø said Father. øBut childhood doesnøt.øøøøøArthur Gordon
Happiness comes from embracing the now. Not letting those moments pass you by. Greg McKeown, author of Essentialism, tells of the story of missing his child being born to be at an øimportant meeting.ø

He thought the potential client would be impressed with his commitment to work. Instead, they saw his decision to miss such a monumental moment as a flaw in character. That moment was a turning point for Greg. In fact, it spurred him to change everything about his life. He now removes everything from his life that is not vital and essential.

Nothing in life is permanent. Kids grow up. Friends move away. Our loved ones pass on from this life. Letøs live in the present and appreciate the mostimportant things in our lives before itøs too late.

8. Do Something Every Day That Terrifies You

8. Do Something Every Day That Terrifies You

Happy people step out of their comfort zone. You canøt grow if you donøt challenge yourself. And growth is a requirement of happiness. If youøre not growing, youøre slowly decaying and dying.

Elevated risk makes you feel more alive and puts you in a state of flowøøøwhich is an optimal conscious state where you feel and perform at your highest level. You become completely absorbed in what youøre doingøøøpure presence.

When you do things way outside your comfort zone, you naturally raise your conscious level. When you do things that involve high risk, and high probability of failure, you are forced to think differently than you normally do. You are forced to be creative and innovative.

Sadly, most people play life small, safe, and easy. The goals they pursue are logical. There is little element of risk and little requirement for faith.

Consequently, you should take bigger risks in your life. Do things that make you feel alive and activate flow. Of course, with this will come more failures.But if youøre not failing, youøre not growing. Rather than experiencing apathy in life, youøll experience more of a roller-coaster of emotions. We can never appreciate joy if weøve never felt sorrow. The more pain and fear we feel, the more we can comprehend and appreciate joy and happiness.

Be strong--you never know who you're inspiring

You know, as a parent you’re setting an example all the time in everything you do – whether you want to or not.”



So much of life depends on the choices we make. I've blown av lot. But none more important than this. 


There’s no greater joy than being able to live freely. Being able to do whatever you want, whenever you want cannot be overestimated. It is amazing. Take my word for it.

I actually like being older. I find myself worrying less about what other people think (though that’s not completely gone) and feeling more and more comfortable in this body of mine. I know what I like and who I am and I’m starting to get delightfully curmudgeonly. I've even been complaining about “all the youths.”



How the things that you wanted yesterday might not be the same things you want today, and that tomorrow you might want something else entirely


In some ways I love being a millennial, because it’s so much easier to be better than the rest of our generation. Because they suck.” It was jarring to hear the truth so plainly stated. But she’s right. We suck. We really suck.

7. Food

To be frank, my relationship with food, for as long as I can remember, has been shitty and toxic. I’ve shown my food a lot of love, but the love has been based on superficial pleasures and compulsion, not on a genuine desire for building something healthy together.

For most of my life, I was able to compensate for it through a high metabolism and constant exercise. It was enough to keep me thin and energetic despite all of my trashy habits.

9.
It’s because the secret to happiness in life comes from making progress on the things you care about, NOT actually achieving all of your goals.


10. Quality time

We delude ourselves when we say otherwise, when we invoke and venerate ìquality time,î a shopworn phrase with a debatable promise: that we can plan instances of extraordinary candor, plot episodes of exquisite tenderness, engineer intimacy in an appointed hour.

We can try. We can cordon off one meal each day or two afternoons each week and weed them of distractions. We can choose a setting that encourages relaxation and uplift. We can fill it with totems and frippery ó a balloon for a child, sparkling wine for a spouse ó that signal celebration and create a sense of the sacred.

But people tend not to operate on cue. At least our moods and emotions donít. We reach out for help at odd points; we bloom at unpredictable ones. The surest way to see the brightest colors, or the darkest ones, is to be watching and waiting and ready for them.

It was over lunch at the beach house one day that my oldest nephew spoke with unusual candor, and at unusual length, about his expectations for college, his experiences in high school ó stuff that Iíd grilled him about previously, never harvesting the generous answers that he volunteered during that particular meal.

It was on a run the next morning that my oldest niece described, as sheíd never done for me before, the joys, frustrations and contours of her relationships with her parents, her two sisters and her brother. Why this information tumbled out of her then, with pelicans overhead and sweat slicking our foreheads, I canít tell you. But I can tell you that Iím even more tightly bonded with her now, and thatís not because of some orchestrated, contrived effort to plumb her emotions. Itís because I was present. Itís because I was there.


6. Cherish every interaction.

Most people have to experience some type of tragedy before they begin to understand just how brief our time here is. You get but a few short trips around the sun, and then it's over.

Time alone is important. Time alone is beautiful. But so is time spent with others.

There is no such thing as a boring person. There is no such thing as a boring situation. If you're ever bored, it's because you're not paying attention. This is a problem with you, not with your surroundings.

Take an interest in every person that comes into your life, even if for only a second. Listen closely to what they say. Watch carefully what they do. Try to understand them as a person. You'll be better for it.

One of the things that can show our maturity is how we care for others. Over the past years, have your eyes become more open? Has your horizon been broadened? Have you become more open-minded, non-judgmental, and more understanding of the world and of people around you?

No matter who you are as a person, no matter what you do, if you have no sympathy for others and no understanding of the world, then you might be missing out on something good in life. Life is more than just about work and play. Life is about experiencing and understanding other human beings and other culture. Life is about experiencing love, joy, happiness, tears, and sadness. Life is about escaping from suffering as much as it is about pleasure.

You know you've done well in life when you no longer judge people for what they're wearing or for what they're doing. Rather, you try to understand. After all, everyone's story is different. You never know what they've been through and what happens behind closed door.

9. Celebrate!!

You donøt celebrate enough.
Iøm not talking about just having fun for the sake of having fun. Plenty of scientific research shows that celebrating is the key to a better life.

We need more high-fives, more parties, more chocolate consumption, and a lot more saying, øWow, thatøs great!ø



7. Rituals Increase Happiness
Ever do a toast before you drink? It made the drink taste better. Really.

Ever take joy in the ritual of preparing your morning coffee? It made that cup of joe that much better.

By focusing your attention on what you drink or eat, little rituals help you enjoy these moments more. Here‚Äôs Francesca:

Think about rituals that you engage in prior to consumption experiences. What they do, they make us a little bit more mindful about the consumption experience that we are about to have. Because of that, we end up savoring the food or whatever we are drinking more, we enjoy the experience more, and in fact, we‚Äôre also more willing to pay higher prices for whatever it is that we just consumed. Once again, rituals are beneficial in the sense that they create higher levels of enjoyment in the experience that we just had.

It‚Äôs called ‚Äúsavoring‚Äù and I‚Äôve posted before about how research shows it‚Äôs one of the most powerful happiness boosters. (It‚Äôs a big part of that mindfulness thing you hear so much about these days.)

But rituals don‚Äôt just improve the taste of food. They  can also make your kids healthier, more engaged with their family and help them get better grades.

 Start noticing the beauty of small events
Instead of waiting for big events, such as weddings, promotions, anniversaries, etc., look for happiness in small and sometimes even invisible things that happen every day. A cup of coffee in the early morning, delicious smell of home-made food; the happiness to share a moment with people you love are all the precious things in your life. Start noticing these little pleasures and your life will become more meaningful.

Release the idea that you need to fix the person or solve the problem. Let go of ‚ÄúThe Fixer‚Äù identity. Be present and curious, without going into rescue mode.

see and hold others as whole, capable, and resourceful.



8. friendship

It takes a lot of energy to be a friend. You get caught up in studying and work, and it becomes tiring to maintain all of these friendships. You get burned out, yíknow? Women, in my experience, are more emotional and bond better than men do.

Male friendships tend to be more superficial; itís about what you share in common at the time. Women are more comfortable sharing deep emotions, and when that happens, thereís more incentive to nurturing the relationship. And women are better at communicating. A guy wouldnít text his friend, ìOh, I heard this song and it reminded me of you,î but a woman would.
Friedman and Sow have a built a small yet beloved media brand around that very concept. Call Your Girlfriend, ìa podcast for long-distance besties everywhere,î involves the co-hosts calling one another and discussing Ö whatever happens to interest them that week. 

Itís been my personal experience that women prioritize nurturing old friendships and cultivating new ones through adulthood, while men, either consciously or not, slip into the ìlone wolfî stereotype. When I stopped playing fantasy football a few years ago, for example, I instantly lost touch with several dudes I saw on a daily basis in college. We are not not-friends, but we rarely communicate with each other, instead expecting to simply pick up where we left off whenever we see each other next. 

9. RL

Itís Not Settling to Love Someone Who Doesnít Match Your Fantasy
Itís very common for people whoíve been single for a long time to say that they wonít settle. They maintain that they could have been married or in a relationship by this time if theyíd settled, but they are going to hold out for the best.

If so, Iíd like to encourage you to consider the value of having a flesh and blood human being in your life to love you, care when youíve had a bad day at work, or bring you soup when youíre sick. Youíll have the opportunity to experience loving this person back and sharing your life with them. Itís tough to cuddle up to a list.
The truth is, dating someone who doesnít possess every quality you wish for isnít the same thing as settling. You probably donít have every trait your would-be mate desires and whether you realize it or not, youíve already been settling.

Being open to dating outside your type is not settling. Most of us understand that weíre not going to get every single thing we want in life and it really is okay.

You donít refuse to find a place to live just because you canít afford a ten-bedroom mansion. Instead, you buy or rent a place within your means and go on about your business. This is a perfectly reasonable thing to do and most of us are fine with the concept until we consider dating. Then we insist on ìhaving it all.î
They can make the most of this chance now, or refuse to settle and relinquish the opportunity to be with you. Sadly, many of us do move on in pursuit of ìthe listî and continue to do so for years despite the lack of evidence that this mythical person exists.
Donít trade an idea that has no basis in reality for the experience of having love in your life. The person your list describes likely doesnít exist, and if he or she does, once you get to know them, you may find theyíre not perfect either. If what you really want is a fulfilling relationship, open your heart and prioritize love today.


20.  "Almost everything will work again if you unplug it for a few minutes, including you." - Anne Lamott

We look for instant gratification in everything we do – the things we post online, the careers we choose, and the people we fall in love with. We want the maturity in a relationship that comes with time, the emotional connect that develops over years, that sense of belonging when we barely even know the other person. Apparently, nothing’s worth our time and patience – not even love.

13. Stuff

It depends on whatøs important to you. If you are perfectly satisfied the way you live and donøt attach too much importance to material things, it doesnøt mean you are miserable.

Buffett has all the wealth in the world. He could drive a Ferrari and live in largest mansion in Manhattan if he wanted to, but I guess he doesnøt attach that much importance to these and instead lives in Omaha (of all places!) and drives his own Cadillac!

As a kid I always wanted a BMW, but now that I can afford it, I donøt! Just knowing that I can afford it is good enough!

- See more at: http://www.financialsamurai.com/no-point-making-money-if-you-dont-spend/#sthash.VwE6cAMj.dpuf

5. Choose to focus on solutions rather than problems.

You can focus on failure, roadblocks, etc., or you can look for answers, find solutions, and overcome the obstacle in front of you. When you look for solutions, you're being proactive and optimistic. That always encourages happiness.

6. Choose acceptance over resistance.

If you go around resisting everything that comes into your life, youíll always be angry and frustrated.

Accept that things won't always go your way. Deal with the disappointment and then try again. If you resist pain, you canít deal with it. If you accept it first, you can find a way through it.


8. Choose your truth over society's demands.

The easiest way to feel unhappy and frustrated with life is to play by lifeís rules, follow and do what everyone else is doingójust because they're doing it.

As years go by, the more you conform and blindly follow societyís lead, the more miserable youíll be.

Choose to live your truth; follow your heartís lead, bow out of unwanted obligations and live the life you desire. Ignore cultural noise, or demands for you to conform.



5. Being single has its rewards.

Being alone has its benefits. Sociologists have documented that a growing number of people are single by choice, and relish the opportunity to live as they please. Being alone gives people the autonomy to choose where to live, what to watch on TV, and what to eat for dinner. Being single often means we have fewer social obligations and can pursue hobbies and adventures that we canøt if we're married. Being single isnøt for everyone, but a growing number of adults stay single for longer than ever before, and use these years to pursue career goals and take risks that they might not have were they married. And people who stay single for life are often just as happy as peers who marry. They learn to arrange their lives so that they are surrounded by the friends, activities, and physical environments that enhance their daily happiness.
