Having Money Isn't What It Use To Be
08-01-2016

That’s a fact of the modern age. Just 100 years ago, the ultra wealthy enjoyed privileges average folk could never access: fresh food, medicine, information, a safe childbirth, etc. Today, there’s a tiny difference between the rich and the American middle class in terms of quality of life. Today, no Americans will die in childbirth. Virtually all have access to good cheap food, can fly anywhere in the world for less than a thousand bucks, access to all the world’s knowledge and culture with a click of the mouse, and so on. As my friend Tyler Cowen has noted, what “average” people in America share with the super rich Bill Gates is far more significant than what we don’t share with him. Gates has a bigger house than you or me, but for what really matters, we’re the same.

Maybe wealth needs its own Goldilocks porridge story: you want not too much, not too little. And I think that ideal middle ground is the “Rich” category in the hierarchy I opened with. More crudely, this ideal amount of money is termed “fuck-you money.” With fuck you money, you can’t fly around the world on a private jet (so you’re not as rich as the Super Rich) but you do have the power to say fuck you to essentially anyone or anything that doesn’t interest you (which means you’re richer than the merely affluent).

For some people, it’s probably worth sacrificing a bit of short term happiness for some finite period of time in order to earn several million dollars. That “sacrifice” can mean working longer hours than you’d like, doing some work that you don’t absolutely love, maybe seeing friends and family less than you’d like. Of course, this logic becomes tricky. A lot of investment bankers hate their life but they are on one of the surest career tracks to piling up low double digit millions in their savings account. But it takes many years. Is not loving your work for 15 years worth it if you end up at the end with $10mm+ in the bank? I don’t think so.

Indeed, long term, as the 80,000 Hours folks point out, insofar as you care about maximizing happiness, “once you get to an individual income of around $40,000 [higher if you live in an expensive area], other factors, such as health, relationships and a sense of purpose, seem far more important than income.”
