I was in the middle of marathon training and needless to say I was exhausted. I was running my "easy runs" faster than goal marathon pace and it was wearing me out. I didn't understand what "easy running" really was, I would just go out on these mid week runs and put in a solid effort. As a result, I was tired all the time, my legs were always sore, my feet hurt, and I was starting to hate running.


I just read this article by Mark Allen former Ironman champion and triathlon coach. The gist of the article is that for nearly a year, he did almost exclusively aerobic training, and through that he was able to get his speed up to a 5:20 pace. Has anyone tried this method? It seems counter to everything I've ever read about increasing speed. No intervals? No tempo runs? Just endurance runs? I am asking because this is what my girlfriend's "running advisor" is recommending for her.
Here is the relevant section from Mark Allen's article:
"A man named Phil Maffetone, who had done a lot of research with the monitors, contacted me. He had me try one out according to a very specific protocol. Phil said that I was doing too much anaerobic training, too much speed work, too many high end/high heart rate sessions. I was forcing my body into a chemistry that only burns carbohydrates for fuel by elevating my heart rate so high each time I went out and ran. So he told me to go to the track, strap on the heart rate monitor, and keep my heart rate below 155 beats per minute. Maffetone told me that below this number that my body would be able to take in enough oxygen to burn fat as the main source of fuel for my muscle to move. I was going to develop my aerobic/fat burning system. What I discovered was a shock. To keep my heart rate below 155 beats/minute, I had to slow my pace down to an 8:15 mile. That’s three minutes/mile SLOWER than I had been trying to hit in every single workout I did! My body just couldn’t utilize fat for fuel.
So, for the next four months, I did exclusively aerobic training keeping my heart rate at or below my maximum aerobic heart rate, using the monitor every single workout. And at the end of that period, my pace at the same heart rate of 155 beats/minute had improved by over a minute. And after nearly a year of doing mostly aerobic training, which by the way was much more comfortable and less taxing than the anaerobic style that I was used to, my pace at 155 beats/minute had improved to a blistering 5:20 mile. That means that I was now able to burn fat for fuel efficiently enough to hold a pace that a year before was redlining my effort at a maximum heart rate of about 190. I had become an aerobic machine! On top of the speed benefit at lower heart rates, I was no longer feeling like I was ready for an injury the next run I went on, and I was feeling fresh after my workouts instead of being totally wasted from them."



Now I'm running more miles than I was during marathon training and I feel fantastic after easy runs. My watch doesn't display distance or pace anymore, only heart rate. A heart rate monitor is not required to run easy, but it helps me slow down if I need to. I don't feel tired all the time, I'm no longer sore, I don't have any pains or niggles when I'm running, and I feel fresh for speed workouts.

Why is easy running so beneficial? Easy runs help build an all important aerobic base without taxing the skeletal muscular system. You're giving your heart and lungs a good workout without over training your muscles and bones. There is a lot of good material out there on the benefits of easy running, and Sage Canaday has a great video about it.



All through college and post-college I went out to crush every mile. If it a mile wasn't around 6:30 pace I felt like I was failing. Always trying to re-enact my collegiate glory days.


I see a lot of comments here about MAF training at HR xxx is too sow. Surely that’s an indicator that you aerobic fitness is poor. I’ve been training by pace and power for the last 9 years, and have plateaued for the last 3 or 4 years. After a disastrous 2015 season which I attribute to “less hours, more intensity” and my burning out, I decided to try MAF. I started in November with a HR or 112-122. I though that was ridiculously low. I was running at 10:00 mile pace. After 8 weeks of MAF training, with no intervals or anything, I’m now running at 8:50 pace at the same HR. This stuff works.
MAF training WON’T make you a 400-800-1500m track star. Don’t look at it as increasing your maximum pace. I won’t. It will increase your minimum pace. You know, the one you end up at over the loner distances.
When training with pace or power, you always want to run a little faster, ride a little harder. Personally, you always end up lying to yourself about how hard you can go. You end up training a little too hard. It’s just a matter of perspective. I know that if my HR goes above xxx then I will pay for it in 30 minutes or an hour.
Anyway, maybe it’s not for everyone. You definitely have to check your ego at the door, but it’s definitely worth trying for a few months in your off season.

